Products In May 2024, over 65,000 developers responded to our annual survey about coding, the technologies and tools they use and want to learn, AI, and developer experience at work. Check out the results and see what's new for Stack Overflow users. Developer Profile Technology AI Work Community Professional Developers Methodology Methodology 65,437 Coders from 185 countries around the world. Technology 62.3% Have used JavaScript in the past year. Methodology 48,019 Respondants shared salary information. Developer profile → Key territories Top 10 countries 🇺🇸 USA 18.9% 🇩🇪 Germany 8.4% 🇮🇳 India 7.2% 🇬🇧 UK 5.5% 🇺🇦 Ukraine 4.6% 🇨🇦 Canada 3.6% 🇫🇷 France 3.6% 🇵🇱 Poland 2.6% 🇳🇱 Netherlands 2.5% 🇧🇷 Brazil 2.3% Community 76.3% Have a Stack Overflow account. Advertising & Talent Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand. Now available! A suite of GenAI tools for Stack Overflow for Teams that helps connect employees to knowledge faster. Developer Profile → Education Educational attainment 66% of developers have a BA/BS or MA/MS degree despite only 49% of developers learning to code at school. Educational attainment → Developer Profile → Learning to code Learning to code Online resources are the top choice for developers to learn code according to 82% of responses. Respondents 18 - 24 years old are most likely to learn code at traditional schools of all the age groups, and consistently so for the last three years. Learning to code → Developer Profile → Learning to code Technical documentation preferences to learn how to code API and SDK documents are the documentation source of choice for 90% of developers. Technical documentation preferences to learn how to code → Technology → Most popular technologies Databases PostgreSQL debuted in the developer survey in 2018 when 33% of developers reported using it, compared with the most popular option that year: MySQL, in use by 59% of developers. Six years later, PostgreSQL is used by 49% of developers and is the most popular database for the second year in a row. Databases → Technology → Most popular technologies Other tools Docker is used the most by professional developers (59%) and npm is used the most by developers learning to code (45%). Other tools → Technology → Most popular technologies Asynchronous tools Jira and Confluence top the list for most used asynchronous tools developers use for the third year. Asynchronous tools → Technology → Admired and Desired Programming, scripting, and markup languages JavaScript, Python and SQL are all highly-desired and admired programming languages, but Rust continues to be the most-admired programming language with an 83% score this year. Programming, scripting, and markup languages → Technology → Admired and Desired Web frameworks and technologies 73% of developers that used it want to keep working with Svelte. Fun fact: Our team at Stack Overflow used Svelte for the first time in building our 2024 Developer Survey results site. We could go on and on about Svelte, listen to us do just that in a interview with one of our own. Web frameworks and technologies → Technology → Admired and Desired AI Search and Developer Tools Most developers who use ChatGPT want to keep using it (75% Admired), while most who use Replit Ghostwrite or Tabnine are least likely to keep using it (36% Admired). If you aren't familiar with Replit, we have an interview for you to familiarize yourself. AI Search and Developer Tools → Technology → Worked with vs. want to work with AI Search and Developer Tools Most developers use ChatGPT of all the AI tools, and 74% want to keep using it next year. 41% of ChatGPT users want to use GitHub Copilot next year. AI Search and Developer Tools → Technology → Top paying technologies Top paying technologies Erlang developers take the top spot this year for highest reported median salary. Top paying technologies → AI → Sentiment and usage AI tools in the development process 76% of all respondents are using or are planning to use AI tools in their development process this year, an increase from last year (70%). Many more developers are currently using AI tools this year, too (62% vs. 44%). AI tools in the development process → AI → Developer tools AI tools next year In the next year, most developers agree that AI tools will be more integrated mostly in the ways they are documenting code (81%), testing code (80%), and writing code (76%). AI tools next year → AI → Efficacy and Ethics Are AI tools a threat to your job 70% of professional developers do not perceive AI as a threat to their job. Are AI tools a threat to your job → AI → Efficacy and Ethics Most important ethical issues for AI Misinformation and disinformation in AI results are a top ethical concern in this year's survey for 79% of developers. Source attribution is the next top ethical concern (65%) which Stack Overflow is working to protect for our community members. Most important ethical issues for AI → Work → Employment Employment status 84% of respondents are working: either part-time, freelancing, or full-time. Employment status → Work → Employment Work environment The number of hybrid developers has stayed consistent this year with last year (42%), while the percentage of developers working in-person has increased (20%) for the third year in a row compared to 15% in 2022 and 16% in 2023. Work environment → Work → Purchasing technology Tech endorsement factors APIs are pretty cool, but did you know that 75% of developers are more likely to endorse your technology if you provide access to APIs? Make sure to let back-end developers and engineering managers know about the API integrations you offer: they are even more likely to endorse your tech than the average coder. Tech endorsement factors → Community → Stack Overflow site use Frequency of visiting Stack Overflow 93% of respondents visit Stack Overflow at least multiple times per month if not multiple times per day. Frequency of visiting Stack Overflow → Community → Participation and Feedback How you choose to use Stack Overflow Everyone agrees that finding answers quickly is the primary reason to use Stack Overflow. Understandably, those learning to code are more likely to use Stack Overflow to learn coding skills than professional developers or other coders. How you choose to use Stack Overflow → Professional Developers → Productivity Impacts Years of professional work experience 1 in 4 are 1 to 4: as in 25% of professional developers report having one to four years of work experience. The majority of respondents are early-to-mid career professionals (nine or less years experience) and the majority of people managers are mid-to-later career professionals (10+ years experience). Years of professional work experience → Professional Developers → Productivity Impacts Daily time spent searching for answers/solutions 61% of all respondents spend more than 30 minutes a day searching for answers or solutions to problems. People managers spend less time searching than individual contributors (40% vs. 36% spend 30 minutes or less). Daily time spent searching for answers/solutions → Survey index 1. Developer Profile 1.1. Education Educational attainment 1.2. Learning to code Learning to code Online resources to learn how to code Technical documentation preferences to learn how to code 1.3. Experience Years coding Years coding professionally Years of professional coding experience by developer type 1.4. Developer roles Developer type 1.5. Key territories Geography 1.6. Demographics Age 2. Technology 2.1. Most popular technologies Programming, scripting, and markup languages Databases Cloud platforms Web frameworks and technologies Embedded Technologies Other frameworks and libraries Other tools Integrated development environment Asynchronous tools Synchronous tools Operating system AI Search and Developer Tools 2.2. Admired and Desired Programming, scripting, and markup languages Databases Cloud platforms Web frameworks and technologies Embedded Technologies Other frameworks and libraries Other tools Integrated development environment Asynchronous tools Synchronous tools AI Search and Developer Tools 2.3. Worked with vs. want to work with Programming, scripting, and markup languages Databases Cloud platforms Web frameworks and technologies Embedded Technologies Other frameworks and libraries Other tools Integrated development environment Asynchronous tools Synchronous tools AI Search and Developer Tools 2.4. Top paying technologies Top paying technologies Change in salaries between 2023 and 2024 3. AI 3.1. Sentiment and usage AI tools in the development process AI tool sentiment 3.2. Developer tools Benefits of AI tools Accuracy of AI tools AI tools' ability to handle complex tasks AI in the development workflow AI tools next year 3.3. Efficacy and Ethics Are AI tools a threat to your job Most important ethical issues for AI Challenges with AI at work AI at work in one year 4. Work 4.1. Employment Employment status Employment status by geography Work environment 4.2. Company info Company size 4.3. Salary Salary by developer type Salary and experience by developer type Salary and experience by language 4.4. Purchasing technology Influence on technology purchases Prefer to build and/or buy new tech Researching new tools and technologies Tech endorsement factors 4.5. Coding outside of work Coding outside of work 5. Community 5.1. Stack Overflow site use Visiting sites across Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange Frequency of visiting Stack Overflow Have an account on Stack Overflow 5.2. Participation and Feedback Frequency of participation on Stack Overflow How you choose to use Stack Overflow Feel like a part of the Stack Overflow community Top suggested improvements per frequency of participation 6. Professional Developers 6.1. Productivity Impacts Participation in Professional Developer series Individual contributor or people manager Years of professional work expe